Any of the following events can occur while the characters are staying in Vallaki.

FESTIVAL OF THE BLAZING SUN 
The Festival of the Blazing Sun takes place three days after the characters first arrive in Vallaki. You can delay the festival if the characters get waylaid or drawn elsewhere, or you can advance the timeline if the characters seem to be in a hurry.

"Under threatening skies, a parade of unhappy children dressed as flowers trudges through the muddy streets, leading the way for a group of sorry-looking men and women carrying a ten-foot-diameter wicker ball. The burgomaster and his smiling wife, who holds a sad bouquet of wilting flowers, follow the procession on horseback. As weary spectators watch from their stoops, the ball is borne to the town square. There, it is hoisted and hung from a fifteen-foot-high wooden scaffold, and townsfolk take turns splashing it with oil. Before the wicker sun can be set ablaze, the sky tears open in a sudden downpour. "All will be well!" cries the burgomaster as he brandishes a sputtering torch and marches defiantly through the rain toward the wicker ball, only to have his torch go out as he thrusts it into the sphere. A singular laugh erupts from the crowd, drawing the burgomaster's fiery gaze as well as gasps from the townsfolk."

The laugh comes from Lars Kjurls (LG male human guard), a member of the town militia. The other guards are aghast at Lars's ill-timed outburst. The burgomaster immediately has Lars arrested for "spite." Unless the characters intervene, Lars is bound at the ankles and wrists, then dragged behind the burgomaster's horse for the "amusement" of all. The burgomaster rides the horse himself.

DEVELOPMENT 
If the characters challenge the burgomaster in any way, he orders them banished from Vallaki. If they protest, he orders the guards to arrest them, deprive them of their weapons, and force them out of Vallaki at sword point. If the characters lose their weapons, the Keepers of the Feather (see area [[Blue Water Inn(N2)|N2]]) eventually steal back the weapons and return them to the characters. If the guards fail in their duty, the burgomaster retreats to his mansion and the townsfolk flee to their homes, giving the characters free rein in town.

LADYWACHTER'S WISH 
Ernst Larnak (see area [[Wachterhaus(N4)|N4]]) begins shadowing the characters. Characters who have a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 15 or higher notice him doing so. If they confront him, he claims that he keeps a watchful eye on all strangers, though he doesn't mention the name of his employer. If the characters threaten him, he backs off and reports to Lady Wachter after he believes he's not being watched or pursued. Lady Wachter is looking for powerful allies to help her oust the burgomaster. If Ernst tells her that he thinks the characters fit the bill, Lady Wachter has Ernst or her sons invite the characters to a private dinner at Wachterhaus. During the dinner, Lady Wachter determines whether the characters have the ability and the resolve to crush the baron. If the characters refuse her invitation, or if they profess to be enemies of Strahd, Lady Wachter marks them as her enemies and sets out to destroy them without incriminating herself.

DEVELOPMENT
Once she determines that the characters are her enemies, Lady Wachter hands Ernst a bag of 100 gp (taken from area [[Wachterhaus(N4)#Storage room(N4q)|N4q]]) and instructs him to deliver it to the vistani camp outside town (area [[Vallaki Camp(N9)|N9]]), along with a letter from her that asks the Vistani to dispose of the charac­ters once they have left town. The Vistani burn the letter after reading it, as per Lady Wachter's request.

If the characters have rescued [[Barovia#Lake Zarovich(L)|Arabelle]] (area L), the Vistani return Lady Wachter's gold to Ernst and do nothing. Otherwise, a Vistana bandit watches the road east of Vallaki and reports back to camp if the characters are sighted leaving. The Vistani, worried that the characters might be more than a match for them, send one emissary on horseback to race ahead of the characters and inform Strahd. If Arrigal is alive, he makes the ride himself. Otherwise, the rider is a young Vistana bandit named Alexei (see area [[Vallaki Camp(N9)#Vistani tent(N9c)|N9c]]).

ST. ANDRAL's FEAST 
The characters can prevent this special event from occurring by returning the bones of St. Andral to the church (area [[ST. Andral's Church(N1)|N1]]) or by destroying the vampire spawn hiding in the coffin maker's shop (area [[Coffin maker's shop(N6)|N6]]). If the characters stay in Vallaki for three days or more and don't retrieve the bones or destroy the vampire spawn, Strahd visits the coffin maker's shop the following evening and orchestrates an attack on the church. The vampire spawn begin the attack that night. They cling to the outer walls and roof of St. Andral's church while four swarms of bats enter the church through the belfry and terrify the congregation. As the townsfolk flee the church, the vampire spawn leap down and attack them. During the chaos, Strahd enters the church in bat form, then reverts to vampire form and attacks Father Lucian. Unless the characters intervene, Strahd kills the priest before returning to Castle Ravenloft. If Father Lucian dies, locals bury his body in the church cemetery, whereupon it rises the following night as a vampire spawn under Strahd's control. If Rictavio (area [[Blue Water Inn(N2)|N2]]) learns of the priest's death, he suggests that the characters burn the priest's body to ensure that it doesn't rise from the dead.

DEVELOPMENT 
The attack on St. Andral's church terrorizes and demoralizes the town. After a few days, fear turns to misdirected rage as townsfolk blame the burgomaster. Baron Vallakovich's "All will be well!" mantra can't protect him from their wrath. Barring intervention by the characters, the burgomaster's mansion is set ablaze, and tie baron, his wife, and his son are dragged to the town square, thrown in the stocks, and stoned to death. If he is alive, Izek Strazni flees the town to avoid a similar fate. Where he hides is up to you, but likely locations include [[Old Bonegrinder|Old Bonegrinder]], Argynvosthalt, or the ruins of Berez. If the characters thwart the attack on the church and protect Father Lucian, Strahd pays a visit to [[Wachterhaus(N4)|Wachterhaus]] and there composes a letter, which he asks Lady Wachter to deliver to the characters. If the letter is written in Strahd's hand and extends an invitation to the characters to come to Castle Ravenloft. Lady Wachter orders her spy, Ernst larnak, or one of her sons to take the letter to the characters. If the characters open and read it, show the players "[[Strahd_s invitation.png|Strahd's Invitation]]". If the characters head toward the castle, they have no threatening random encounters on the way.

